# MPWS2022RH1

## Additional data export

The subdirectory `./graal` contains a [graalvm](https://github.com/oracle/graal)-fork that adds additional data acquisition and output functionality to native-image.

### Building

It can be built as usual using
```bash
mx -p ./substratevm build
```
An added subcomponent _HeapAssignmentTracingAgent_ requires CMake to be installed. It is also currently only expected to work on linux-based setups.

### Reachability.json

This output can be generated by supplying the option
```bash
-H:+GenerateReachabilityFile
```
which is active by default. The generated file `<name>.reachability.json` contains information about all reachable classes, methods and fields.

It is the basic input of the observatory visualizations.

### CausalityExport

```bash
-H:+PrintCausalityGraph
```
Specifying this option generates a file `<name>.cg.zip`. It extends the Reachability.json-export with information about how events during the analysis lead to each other.
Image building is expected to take more time.

#### Troubleshooting

Per default, a native JVMTI agent is attached to the VM during build, in order to collect information about heap writes.
If the build fails for strange reasons, the agent may be causing unforeseen problems. For this case, it can be disabled using
```bash
-H:-HeapAssignmentTracingAgent
```
Of course the quality of the generated data will be degraded without the agent.

## Visualization

The subdirectory `./observatory` contains a web-app for visualizing the additonal data output ([README](./observatory/README.md)).
The application can be served statically and works client-side in the browser.

Both the *Reachability.json* and the *CausalityExport* can be fed into this app.
The visualization _CutTool_ only works with the CausalityExport, as the advanced data is necessary for cutoff-predictions.
